---
layout: post
title: Food Poverty in London in 2023
subtitle: Exploring the trend in food poverty across the 32 London boroughs and City of London
date: 2024-02-18
img_src: /images/porfolio_of_work/20240218_trussell_trust_2021.png
tags: interactive dataViz foodPoverty
---

<div style="position: relative; width: 90%; padding-bottom: 60%;margin: 0 auto;">
  <iframe src="/asset/trussell_trust_2021_23.html" 
          style="position: absolute; width: 100%; height: 100%;"
          frameBorder="0">
  </iframe>
</div>


This visualisation shows the the number of emergency food parcels Trussell Trust delivered over the the given financial years.
While the Trust has made their data available across all local authorities in the UK, including Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales,
these data points were not included in this exploratory analysis due to the constraint of computational power.
Data from 2021 and 2022 is also removed from the interactive plot due to the storage contraint of the server.

While Trussel Trust is one of the major charity providing food to the population at risk of food poverty,
the data explored in this graph may not be representative. 
Firstly, this data only includes food parcels distributed by Trussell Trust. 
Delivery by other independent food banks were not included.
Secondly, there could be significant spillover effect whereby the recipient of the
emergency food parcels may collect the proceeding at a location away from their shelter or home.
Therefore, the aggregates at the borough should be taken with consideration.

The raw data is obtained through the [download link](https://www.trusselltrust.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2023/04/Trussell-Trust-End-of-Year-Statistics-2022-23.xlsx). 
Trussel Trust also published their analysis on the data on the [End of Year Stats](https://www.trusselltrust.org/news-and-blog/latest-stats/end-year-stats/) page.



<span style="color:#8F8F8F">*Author's Note:<br>Detailed methodology for the data management process is yet to be published.*</span>
